README.md, before:

# Font Awesome 5 Rails
[![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/font_awesome5_rails.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/rb/font_awesome5_rails)
[![FA5 version](https://d25lcipzij17d.cloudfront.net/badge.svg?id=gh&type=6&v=5.1.0&x2=0)](https://github.com/tomkra/font_awesome5_rails/blob/master/lib/font_awesome5_rails/version.rb)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/tomkra/font_awesome5_rails.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/tomkra/font_awesome5_rails)
[![HitCount](http://hits.dwyl.io/tomkra/tomkra/font_awesome5_rails.svg)](http://hits.dwyl.io/tomkra/tomkra/font_awesome5_rails)

font_awesome5_rails provides the [Font-Awesome5](https://fontawesome.com/) web fonts, stylesheets and javascripts as a Rails engine for use with the asset pipeline and with backwards compatibility with [font-awesome-rails](https://github.com/bokmann/font-awesome-rails) gem.

This gem provides only Free icons from Font-Awesome.

Keep track of changes in [Changelog](https://github.com/tomkra/font_awesome5_rails/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md).

## Table of Contents
**[Instalation](#instalation)** <br />
**[Usage](#usage)** <br />
  - **[Basic usage](#basic-usage)** <br />
  - **[Solid, Regular, Light, Brand icon types](#solid-regular-light-brand-icon-types)** <br />
  - **[Animations and data attributes](#animations-and-data-attributes)** <br />
  - **[Layered and Stacked icons](#layered-and-stacked-icons)** <br />

**[Use as images](#use-as-images)** <br />
**[FontAwesome 5 Pro icons](#fontawesome-5-pro-icons)** <br />


## Installation
Now you have two options how to include FontAwesome 5 icons. First option is to use ```SVG``` and ```JS``` files which is recommended by FontAwesome team. However you can use icons as ```webfont with CSS``` but you will not be able to use new FA5 features as animations or ```layered_icons```. Choose one installation option from above:

### 1. Install as SVG with JS (recommended)
Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'font_awesome5_rails'
```

In your `application.css`, include the css file:
```css
 *= require font_awesome5
```
or if you prefer scss add this to your `application.css.scss` file:
```sass
@import 'font_awesome5';
```

In your `application.js`, include the javascript file:
```javascript
#= require font_awesome5
```

### 2. Install as webfont with CSS (old way)
In your `application.css`, include the css file:
```css
 *= require font_awesome5_webfont
```

## Usage
Gem provides FontAwesome icons through helper. In your views just call `fa_icon`.

### Basic usage
```ruby
fa_icon('camera-retro')
# => <i class="fas fa-camera-retro"></i>
 
fa_icon('camera-retro', style: 'color: Tomato')
# => <i class="fas fa-camera-retro" style="color:Tomato"></i>
  
fa_icon('camera-retro', class: 'my-class', text: 'Camera', size: '3x')
# => <i class="fas fa-camera-retro my-class fa-3x"></i>
# =>  <span>Camera</span>
 
fa_icon(:camera_retro, class: 'my-class')
# => <i class="fas fa-camera-retro my-class"></i>
```

### Solid, Regular, Light, Brand icon types
In Font Awesome 5 there are several different types of icons. In font_awesome5_rails gem default icon type is ```solid```.
If you want to use different icon style you can do this through ```type``` attribute.

| Style         | type: | type:  |
| ------------- |-------|--------|
| Solid         | :fas  |:solid  |
| Regular       | :far  |:regular|
| Light         | :fal  |:light  |
| Brand         | :fab  |:brand  | 


```ruby
fa_icon('camera-retro', type: :solid) #Default
# => <i class="fas fa-camera-retro"></i>
 
fa_icon('camera-retro', type: :regular)
# => <i class="far fa-camera-retro"></i>
  
fa_icon('camera-retro', type: :light)
# => <i class="fal fa-camera-retro"></i>
 
fa_icon('camera-retro', type: :brand)
# => <i class="fab fa-camera-retro"></i>
     
fa_icon('camera-retro', type: :fab)
# => <i class="fab fa-camera-retro"></i>
     
```  

### Animations and data attributes
FontAwesome 5 provides new animations and data attributes. Here are some examples how to use them:
```ruby
fa_icon('camera-retro', animation: 'spin')
# => <i class="fas fa-camera-retro fa-spin"></i>
 
fa_icon('camera-retro', data: {'fa-transform': 'rotate-90'})
# => <i class="fas fa-camera-retro" data-fa-transform="rotate-90"></i>

```

In FontAwesome5 the text is right behind icon. For better readability text has defaultly set to ```padding-left: 5px;```. If you want to override this setting, you can do that through ```.fa5-text``` class in css styles.

### Layered and Stacked icons
FontAwesome 5 newly provides layered icons. For backward compatibility there were preserved ```fa_stacked_icon``` helper, but you can acomplish the same result with ```fa_layered_icon```.

#### Layered icon examples
```fa_layered_icon``` takes options and block of code that will be rendered inside.

Following ```fa_layered_icon``` examples are written in ```haml```.
```ruby
= fa_layered_icon do
  = fa_icon 'circle'
# => <span class="fa-layers fa-fw">
# =>   <i class="fas fa-circle"></i>
# => </span>  

= fa_layered_icon style: 'background: MistyRose', size: '4x' do
  = fa_icon 'circle', style: 'color: Tomato'
  = fa_icon 'times', class: 'fa-inverse', data: { fa_transform: 'shrink-6' }
# => <div class="fa-4x">
# =>   <span class="fa-layers fa-fw" style="background: MistyRose">
# =>     <i class="fas fa-circle" style="color: Tomato"></i>
# =>     <i class="fas fa-times fa-inverse" data-fa-transform="shrink-6"></i>
# =>   </span> 
# => </div>

= fa_layered_icon aligned: :false do
  = fa_icon 'circle'
  %span.fa-layers-text= "Text"
  %span.fa-layers-counter= "1,419"
# => <span class="fa-layers">
# =>   <i class="fas fa-circle"></i>
# =>   <span class="fa-layers-counter">1,419</span>
# => </span>  
```

#### Stacked icon examples
For different base icon type you can use ```base_type``` option.
```ruby
fa_stacked_icon('camera', base: 'circle')
# => <span class="fa-stack">
# =>   <i class="fas fa-circle fa-stack-2x"></i>
# =>   <i class="fas fa-camera fa-stack-1x"></i>
# => </span>

fa_stacked_icon('camera inverse', base: 'circle', type: :fas, class: 'my-class') #Default :fas is default type
# => <span class="fa-stack my-class">
# =>   <i class="fas fa-circle fa-stack-2x"></i>
# =>   <i class="fas fa-camera fa-inverse fa-stack-1x"></i>
# => </span>

fa_stacked_icon('camera', base: 'circle', reverse: true, text: 'Text!') #Default: reverse: false
# => <span class="fa-stack">
# =>   <i class="fas fa-circle fa-stack-1x"></i>
# =>   <i class="fas fa-camera fa-stack-2x"></i>
# => </span>Text!

fa_stacked_icon('camera', base: 'circle', type: :fas, base_type: :fab)
# => <span class="fa-stack">
# =>   <i class="fab fa-circle fa-stack-2x"></i>
# =>   <i class="fas fa-camera fa-stack-1x"></i>
# => </span>

```

## Use as images
From version ```0.2.3``` you can include icons as images in your views.
```ruby
image_tag('fa5/solid/camera.svg')
image_tag('fa5/brand/facebook.svg')
image_tag('fa5/regular/bell.svg', width: '100px', class: 'my-img')
```

More examples can be found in specs.

More animation and data attributes can be found on [FontAwesome documentation](https://fontawesome.com/how-to-use/svg-with-js).

## FontAwesome 5 Pro icons
Due to licence policy this gem pack only free FA5 icons. However ```fa_icon``` helper support all types of icons. If you buyed FA5 Pro icons and want to use helpers provided by this gem it's possible.   
1. Add this gem to your ```Gemfile``` without including anything to ```application.css``` and ```application.js```.
2. Download your FA5 pro icons and unpack them.
3. Now you will have to manualy include all FA5 files you want to use to your ```/assets``` folder.
4. If you're using ```svg``` files do not forget to include ```*.svg``` in your ```assets.rb``` file.
5. You should now be able to use all FA5 Pro icons with helpers provided by this gem.

If you have any questions feel free to create new issue.

## License
The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

[Font Awesome5 License](https://fontawesome.com/license).

Commit message:

Allow including JS for individual styles (solid/regular/brands)

README.md, after:

# Font Awesome 5 Rails
[![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/font_awesome5_rails.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/rb/font_awesome5_rails)
[![FA5 version](https://d25lcipzij17d.cloudfront.net/badge.svg?id=gh&type=6&v=5.1.0&x2=0)](https://github.com/tomkra/font_awesome5_rails/blob/master/lib/font_awesome5_rails/version.rb)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/tomkra/font_awesome5_rails.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/tomkra/font_awesome5_rails)
[![HitCount](http://hits.dwyl.io/tomkra/tomkra/font_awesome5_rails.svg)](http://hits.dwyl.io/tomkra/tomkra/font_awesome5_rails)

font_awesome5_rails provides the [Font-Awesome5](https://fontawesome.com/) web fonts, stylesheets and javascripts as a Rails engine for use with the asset pipeline and with backwards compatibility with [font-awesome-rails](https://github.com/bokmann/font-awesome-rails) gem.

This gem provides only Free icons from Font-Awesome.

Keep track of changes in [Changelog](https://github.com/tomkra/font_awesome5_rails/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md).

## Table of Contents
**[Instalation](#instalation)** <br />
**[Usage](#usage)** <br />
  - **[Basic usage](#basic-usage)** <br />
  - **[Solid, Regular, Light, Brand icon types](#solid-regular-light-brand-icon-types)** <br />
  - **[Animations and data attributes](#animations-and-data-attributes)** <br />
  - **[Layered and Stacked icons](#layered-and-stacked-icons)** <br />

**[Use as images](#use-as-images)** <br />
**[FontAwesome 5 Pro icons](#fontawesome-5-pro-icons)** <br />


## Installation
Now you have two options how to include FontAwesome 5 icons. First option is to use ```SVG``` and ```JS``` files which is recommended by FontAwesome team. However you can use icons as ```webfont with CSS``` but you will not be able to use new FA5 features as animations or ```layered_icons```. Choose one installation option from above:

### 1. Install as SVG with JS (recommended)
Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'font_awesome5_rails'
```

In your `application.css`, include the css file:
```css
 *= require font_awesome5
```
or if you prefer scss add this to your `application.css.scss` file:
```sass
@import 'font_awesome5';
```

In your `application.js`, include the javascript file:
```javascript
#= require font_awesome5
```

If you want to specify which styles you include, replace the global `font_awesome5` javascript with this, selecting any combination of regular/solid/brands:

```javascript
#= require font_awesome
#= require font_awesome-regular
#= require font_awesome-solid
#= require font_awesome-brands
#= require font_awesome5-init
```

### 2. Install as webfont with CSS (old way)
In your `application.css`, include the css file:
```css
 *= require font_awesome5_webfont
```

## Usage
Gem provides FontAwesome icons through helper. In your views just call `fa_icon`.

### Basic usage
```ruby
fa_icon('camera-retro')
# => <i class="fas fa-camera-retro"></i>

fa_icon('camera-retro', style: 'color: Tomato')
# => <i class="fas fa-camera-retro" style="color:Tomato"></i>

fa_icon('camera-retro', class: 'my-class', text: 'Camera', size: '3x')
# => <i class="fas fa-camera-retro my-class fa-3x"></i>
# =>  <span>Camera</span>

fa_icon(:camera_retro, class: 'my-class')
# => <i class="fas fa-camera-retro my-class"></i>
```

### Solid, Regular, Light, Brand icon types
In Font Awesome 5 there are several different types of icons. In font_awesome5_rails gem default icon type is ```solid```.
If you want to use different icon style you can do this through ```type``` attribute.

| Style         | type: | type:  |
| ------------- |-------|--------|
| Solid         | :fas  |:solid  |
| Regular       | :far  |:regular|
| Light         | :fal  |:light  |
| Brand         | :fab  |:brand  |


```ruby
fa_icon('camera-retro', type: :solid) #Default
# => <i class="fas fa-camera-retro"></i>

fa_icon('camera-retro', type: :regular)
# => <i class="far fa-camera-retro"></i>

fa_icon('camera-retro', type: :light)
# => <i class="fal fa-camera-retro"></i>

fa_icon('camera-retro', type: :brand)
# => <i class="fab fa-camera-retro"></i>

fa_icon('camera-retro', type: :fab)
# => <i class="fab fa-camera-retro"></i>

```

### Animations and data attributes
FontAwesome 5 provides new animations and data attributes. Here are some examples how to use them:
```ruby
fa_icon('camera-retro', animation: 'spin')
# => <i class="fas fa-camera-retro fa-spin"></i>

fa_icon('camera-retro', data: {'fa-transform': 'rotate-90'})
# => <i class="fas fa-camera-retro" data-fa-transform="rotate-90"></i>

```

In FontAwesome5 the text is right behind icon. For better readability text has defaultly set to ```padding-left: 5px;```. If you want to override this setting, you can do that through ```.fa5-text``` class in css styles.

### Layered and Stacked icons
FontAwesome 5 newly provides layered icons. For backward compatibility there were preserved ```fa_stacked_icon``` helper, but you can acomplish the same result with ```fa_layered_icon```.

#### Layered icon examples
```fa_layered_icon``` takes options and block of code that will be rendered inside.

Following ```fa_layered_icon``` examples are written in ```haml```.
```ruby
= fa_layered_icon do
  = fa_icon 'circle'
# => <span class="fa-layers fa-fw">
# =>   <i class="fas fa-circle"></i>
# => </span>

= fa_layered_icon style: 'background: MistyRose', size: '4x' do
  = fa_icon 'circle', style: 'color: Tomato'
  = fa_icon 'times', class: 'fa-inverse', data: { fa_transform: 'shrink-6' }
# => <div class="fa-4x">
# =>   <span class="fa-layers fa-fw" style="background: MistyRose">
# =>     <i class="fas fa-circle" style="color: Tomato"></i>
# =>     <i class="fas fa-times fa-inverse" data-fa-transform="shrink-6"></i>
# =>   </span>
# => </div>

= fa_layered_icon aligned: :false do
  = fa_icon 'circle'
  %span.fa-layers-text= "Text"
  %span.fa-layers-counter= "1,419"
# => <span class="fa-layers">
# =>   <i class="fas fa-circle"></i>
# =>   <span class="fa-layers-counter">1,419</span>
# => </span>
```

#### Stacked icon examples
For different base icon type you can use ```base_type``` option.
```ruby
fa_stacked_icon('camera', base: 'circle')
# => <span class="fa-stack">
# =>   <i class="fas fa-circle fa-stack-2x"></i>
# =>   <i class="fas fa-camera fa-stack-1x"></i>
# => </span>

fa_stacked_icon('camera inverse', base: 'circle', type: :fas, class: 'my-class') #Default :fas is default type
# => <span class="fa-stack my-class">
# =>   <i class="fas fa-circle fa-stack-2x"></i>
# =>   <i class="fas fa-camera fa-inverse fa-stack-1x"></i>
# => </span>

fa_stacked_icon('camera', base: 'circle', reverse: true, text: 'Text!') #Default: reverse: false
# => <span class="fa-stack">
# =>   <i class="fas fa-circle fa-stack-1x"></i>
# =>   <i class="fas fa-camera fa-stack-2x"></i>
# => </span>Text!

fa_stacked_icon('camera', base: 'circle', type: :fas, base_type: :fab)
# => <span class="fa-stack">
# =>   <i class="fab fa-circle fa-stack-2x"></i>
# =>   <i class="fas fa-camera fa-stack-1x"></i>
# => </span>

```

## Use as images
From version ```0.2.3``` you can include icons as images in your views.
```ruby
image_tag('fa5/solid/camera.svg')
image_tag('fa5/brand/facebook.svg')
image_tag('fa5/regular/bell.svg', width: '100px', class: 'my-img')
```

More examples can be found in specs.

More animation and data attributes can be found on [FontAwesome documentation](https://fontawesome.com/how-to-use/svg-with-js).

## FontAwesome 5 Pro icons
Due to licence policy this gem pack only free FA5 icons. However ```fa_icon``` helper support all types of icons. If you buyed FA5 Pro icons and want to use helpers provided by this gem it's possible.
1. Add this gem to your ```Gemfile``` without including anything to ```application.css``` and ```application.js```.
2. Download your FA5 pro icons and unpack them.
3. Now you will have to manualy include all FA5 files you want to use to your ```/assets``` folder.
4. If you're using ```svg``` files do not forget to include ```*.svg``` in your ```assets.rb``` file.
5. You should now be able to use all FA5 Pro icons with helpers provided by this gem.

If you have any questions feel free to create new issue.

## License
The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

[Font Awesome5 License](https://fontawesome.com/license).
